a truce between Israel and Hamas in Gaza
will start on Friday morning local time
the first contingent of hostages will be
released by Hamas later in the afternoon
the Qatari foreign Ministry said the
ceasefire will cover the North and the
South of Gaza he also said humanitarian
Aid would start flowing into Gaza as
soon as the truce Begins the fighting is
expected to stop at 7 in the morning and
the first hostages are expected to be
released from 400 p.m. onwards initially
13 people will be freed all of them
women and
children qatar's foreign Ministry
spokesman outlined how the release of
the hostages would proceed so the first
uh release will be of 13 uh individuals
of uh you know men and sorry women and
uh and children uh some of them are
elderly women some of them are women and
others of course are are children as we
stated uh they will be released at
approximately 4 p.m. I must say as as
you might expect it's not you know exact
science to decide on the on the time
itself it would have a lot of moving
Parts on on the ground but approximately
4 P.M and uh that will be happening
every day within a specific uh window of
uh of time where the situation will be
much safer for them to uh to move about
uh they will be as I said handed over to
the red uh cross and I won't get into
the details of how they they are dealt
with after that but the idea is to make
the transfer as safe as possible for all
uh parties we have
and DW's Ben fulan in Tel Aviv told us
more about the deal well this is huge
news for the families gathered down here
of what they've now called hostage
Square just across uh from the military
headquarters in central Tel Aviv uh
we've heard that the ceasefire would
begin at 7:00 a.m. local time uh then uh
a number of hours later about 400 p.m
there would be the release of 13
hostages uh Israel has made it clear
until now that this would happen in
batches um it was demanding at least 10
hostages at a time um and according to
Palestinian sources today as well uh if
that is adhered to we could see this
extended to uh more hostages uh and
could see up to anything like a 100
hostages released by the end of the
month that's all speculation right now
but we have finally got that concrete
time of the ceasefire which would allow
not only the removal of the hostages
from Gaza but also humanitarian Aid into
Gaza there are have been many sticking
points with Hamas uh but it sounds like
we do now have an
agreement now um earlier uh there was
speculation that 50 hostages would be
released now the number dropped to 13
what was the local reaction
there well basically as I said the idea
is that it would be done in batches so
so uh not all 50 all at the one time
that was never uh agreed upon uh what
was being looked at was at least 10
hostages at a time uh this is Major
relief uh for the families who are now
being told or will be told in the next
hours uh who is being released exactly
they haven't known until now but there
is a list that has been done up
according to K I have uh one of the
family members here uh a brother of one
of the hostages to talk to to to talk to
about uh the situation it's a very very
tricky situation uh Eli David your
23-year-old brother I believe is being
held hostage at the moment could you
tell us a bit about him yes of course
he's a musician he plays the guitar he's
very talented we like to play and sing
together um that's our family
activity um he works as a shift manager
he's just a young man starting his life
uh shift manager in a cafe you know just
saving money for his future travels he
were he he was supposed to uh fly to
Thailand next week with his friends and
right now he is being held down there
and he will probably be held long time
unfortunately Only Women and Children
coming out at the moment um how much of
that how much of a disappointment is
that for
you the feelings are uh mixed because on
the one hand we are so happy to um this
nightmare to end for some families and
also the children there and the babies
just tearing up my heart to think about
them and my brother is stronger um so he
could last longer there H although he is
again he is a son of someone and he is a
brother to
someone
and
on the other hand um I also think that
maybe there's there's hope we can uh
bargain with the devil and I'm hope that
H I'm hoping that it's really it really
will work and we will have a proof that
um people can be uh going out from there
one of the sticking points with Hamas
has been allowing in the red crescent to
attend to the rest of the hostages was
staying behind um that must also be
causing Agony for you I guess you don't
know what sort of uh condition your
brothers in that's right I mean for 48
days we know nothing about him really
nothing um Hamas wouldn't allowed anyone
to get near the
hostages and we as families demand that
if the Red Cross is getting and um being
given access to
um to give a a a medical
Aid um inside Gaza Street we demand uh
to um to the hostages that they will be
seen by them also so uh that there will
be no double standard love to leave it
there Eli thank you very much and all
the best to you and your brother and
your family thank you so
much so uh families keep Gathering here
tomorrow there'll be I'm sure an even
bigger crowd when we hear about this
ceasefire and the results of any
Handover of hostages um on Saturday
there's also expected to be a huge rally
here some 50,000 Israelis here coming to
demand all hostages be
released Ben fulan there reporting from
Tel Aviv thank you very much ben Gan
Basin is a former hostage negotiator he
played a prominent role in the release
of Israeli soldier gilad shalet in 2011
after 5 years in Hamas captivity welcome
back to DW gersan the question many are
asking today is the delay in the hostage
agreement is that necessarily a sign of
a deeper problem or are delays to be
expected in a situation like
this it could be a sign of a deeper
problem I'm hoping that it's just a
matter of working out the final
Logistics and getting it done there are
so many moving Parts here that need to
be aligned and agreed upon particularly
when we're dealing with two parties that
have zero trust between them and they
don't communicate directly so we're
relying on third parties like Qatar and
Egypt to deal with all these minutia
details that need to be agreed on so
that the whole thing doesn't explode
before it even takes place let's look
into that a bit deeper as someone who
has been involved in such negotiations
help us to better understand the
complexity of that situation as both
negotiating parties as you say Israel
and Hamas do not speak directly to each
other
right so what's been agreed on as we
understand is that there will be a a
truce a ceasing of fire for a period of
four days during which time Israel will
also give a window of six hours when it
won't fly any drones above the Gaza
Strip to enable Hamas to mobilize
hostages that will be released probably
in batches of 10 to 13 every day for 4
days with a total number of 50 Women and
Children released at the same time
Israel has prepared a list of 300 women
and teenager prisoners in Israel who
would be released on a on an equivalent
of one Hostage to three prisoners be
released the prisoners will only be
released after hostages are turned over
to the International Red Cross on the
Egyptian side of the Gaza Egypt border
they will verify identity check medical
conditions and have them send to Israel
will they be sent a to hospital this is
very fragile and it could break down by
a single shot of a soldier or Hamas
fighter who returns to his home and sees
it no longer there because it was bombed
by Israel or Israelis who try to prevent
gazin from traveling from the south of
Gaza back to their homes in the North or
even a crazy scenario that tomorrow
Israel discovers the hiding place of the
senior Hamas command and do they take
the shot or don't they take the shot
they probably would which would put an
end to the steal but there might be also
additional elements that we don't know
about that are more substantial than
dealing with Logistics that are trying
to be resolved as we speak Gan if this
First Agreement the terms of which
you've just laid out for us if it's Su
successfully implemented in the coming
days does it get easier from here do you
expect more hostages to be released more
quickly in the
future the hope is that this agreement
would carry on before the four days
Israel has said that it's willing to
extend the truce for another day for
each group of 10 hostages that would be
released so it could go into day five 6
7 8 9 10 going on until all the civilian
hostages are released my assessment is
that Hamas is primarily interested in
keeping the soldiers as hostages and not
the civilians keeping babies and
children and women and elderly people is
a burden to them and requires a lot of
logistical support on their side they'd
much rather just have the soldiers and
for Israel of course it's so essential
to get these civilian hostages home
Israel failed to protect them they were
taken from their homes and their beds
and the music festival and Israel has to
bring them home and and remember every
moment of the day the suffering of the
families who are waiting for news about
their Lov ones and what condition
they're in and waiting for them to come
home in terms of leadership how much
extra strain does it bring to this
situation gon that the Israeli
government has committed itself to
eliminating the military leadership of
Hamas the very people we imagine with
whom they're seeking to find a
compromise here regarding
hostages yeah there's no no doubt makes
for a very difficult negotiation when
you're negotiating with people that you
intend to kill it makes it a very
different difficult negotiation it's
also been in the tradition of Israeli
negotiations in these kind of situations
very one-sided Israel doesn't take the
initiative in making proposals and
offering what it's willing to give it
waits for the other side to make
proposals and then it says yes or no in
this case the the Israelis received the
proposals and then asked President Biden
to weigh heavily on the qataris to push
the Hamas to make concessions but it's
not a normal kind of negotiation where
at least from Israel's point of view
which which is very proactive Israel's
responses are very reactive to the Hamas
proposals and that also makes it very
very
unusual I mentioned your involvement in
the gilat Shalit case more than a th000
Palestinian prisoners were released in
exchange for the one Israeli soldier in
2011 is this an indication in any way of
the concessions Israel will have to make
to bring home all 240 hostages or can
the two cases not be compared in this
case I don't think we should compare the
two cases I think that the lessons
learned by the Israeli public and the
Israeli me military with regard to that
deal in 2011 is not to do it again um it
should be noted that the only way to
bring all the hostages home safely is
through that kind of deal which would be
an all forall deal all the hostages for
all the prisoners in Israel there are
some 7,200 Palestinian prisoners in
Israel including 559 who were sitting on
life sentences for murdering Israelis
another 130 that were captured inside of
Israel after they committed atrocious
acts of terrorism on October 7th and
some 300 plus Hamas fighters who have
been captured by Israel since the
beginning of the war um this is beyond
imagination of what Israeli Society is
willing to accept but I think that it is
possible to bring all the civilian
hostages home those who are defined by
hamas's civilians of women and children
and elderly and wounded and and and sick
hostages the majority of them but Hamas
will still be holding on to a sizable
number of Israeli hostages who they
Define as soldiers and those
negotiations will be extraordinarily
difficult former hostage negotiator Gan
Basin great to get your Insight thank
you thank
you